OmniOS r151014
==============

Please use `pkg update` to insure your LTS bits are at the latest
version. We will not backport a lot, but because it's **Long-Term**, we
will not just let it languish either.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**NOTE:** OpenSSH can now be used as the system's default SSH daemon.
New installs of r151014 will install OpenSSH by default. To switch from
SunSSH to OpenSSH, run the following:

```
# /usr/bin/pkg install --no-backup-be --reject pkg:/network/ssh --reject pkg:/network/ssh/ssh-key --reject pkg:/service/network/ssh pkg:/network/openssh pkg:/network/openssh-server
```

To switch from OpenSSH back to SunSSH:

```
# /usr/bin/pkg install --no-backup-be --reject pkg:/network/openssh --reject pkg:/network/openssh-server pkg:/network/ssh pkg:/network/ssh/ssh-key pkg:/service/network/ssh
```

**IMPORTANT NOTE**: Switching from SunSSH to OpenSSH will require commenting-out
`MaxAuthTriesLog` and `RhostsAuthentication` options in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`.
Also, both `ListenAddress` directives MUST be commented out (SunSSH has one
uncommented by default). The OpenSSH package will deliver a `/etc/ssh/sshd_config.new`
file to consult. This file is the recommended default configuration.

**IMPORTANT NOTE 2 (Thanks Andy Fiddaman)**: To continue allowing connections from
SunSSH, please add the following to `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`:

`KexAlgorithms +diffie-hellman-group1-sha1`

If you have ssh service entries in `/etc/pam.conf` you may need to update them.
For example, Andy needed to `s/sshd-kbdint/sshd/` to re-enable their two-factor
authentication.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### March 1 2017 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [2fb9a48](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/2fb9a48)

`uname -v/uname -a` shows omnios-2fb9a48

* HP Gen9 sudden-reboot fix with the Broadcom NIC (bge)
* i40e now uses multiple receive and transmit rings, for better per-flow performance
* Small bugfixes in NFS, ZFS, NVMe, and LSI HBA support (mpt_sas)

### December 31 2016 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [280c743](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/280c743)

`uname -a` shows omnios-280c743

* Chelsio Terminator T5 NIC support
* Security and reliability updates to `procfs` and `tmpfs`

### October 27 2016 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [cac2b76](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/cac2b76)

`uname -a` shows omnios-cac2b76

* Kaby Lake I219 support
* NVMe support for some NVMe 1.1 devices
* Expat to v2.2 (security fix)
* Critical kernel fixes backported from illumos-gate

### August 3 2016 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [798601a](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/798601a)

`uname -a` shows omnios-b13298f (driver update only)

* ixgbe updated to support X550
* New i40e driver supports Intel XL710 4x10GigE or 40GigE boards

### June 6 2016 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [b13298f](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/b13298f)

`uname -a` shows omnios-b13298f

* libxml update to 2.9.4
* DTrace stability fixes (illumos 7033-7035)
* setid binaries disallow ld.so.1's $ORIGIN (illumos 6987)
* ZFS no longer bleeds zvol entries into non-global zones (illumos 7019,7020)
* NTP to 4.2.8p8
* expat to 2.1.1 (with CVE 2016-0718 fix)
* missing MCFG table should lead to I/O PCIe config access (illumos 6859)
* allow sendfile() on AF_UNIX sockets (illumos 6861)
* ZFS-helper: kernel virtual memory fragmentation leads to hang (illumos 6914)
* STMF kstat free is using an improper size for kmem_free(). (illumos 6938)
* Driver support for Solarflare 10G and 40G ethernet
* Timezone, USB, and PCI data files updates. (Now matches r151018)
* Driver support for vmxnet3s
* MSI-X support fixed for virtio
* The pkg(5) variant is now available as of this update. See the
  [r151018 Release Notes](ReleaseNotes/r151018.md) for details on
  how to create a DEBUG-kernel alternate boot environment

### April 21 2016 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [aab7656](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/aab7656)

`uname -a` shows omnios-aab7656

* ZFS fixes for Samba & SMB sharers (illumos 6841-6843)
* Better support for modern hardware, esp. HP Gen 9 (illumos 6806-6807)
* More HP Gen 9 SmartArray controllers (illumos 6760)
* Intel I219 and updates to Intel GigE common code (illumos 6666-6667)
* Git update to 2.8.0
* OpenSSH 7.2p2 fixes for GSSAPI key exchange
* OpenSSH now installed on new installs.

### February 4 2016 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [c91bcdf](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/c91bcdf)

`uname -a` shows omnios-c91bcdf

* ZFS receive now covers refquota-on-receive overage (illumos 6562)
* DTrace robustness update

### December 16th Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [d0a4f2e](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/d0a4f2e)

`uname -a` shows omnios-d0a4f2e

* BIND security update to 9.10.3-P2
* ZFS receives now replication streams with a refquota even if
  older snapshots exceed it (illumos 4986). Includes new ZFS Test
  Suite test
* OpenSSH now integrates with the illumos audit subsystem. Thanks
  to Joyent, and this is part of getting OpenSSH to match SunSSH's
  integrated functionality
* NVMe bugfixes (illumos 6466 and 6467)

### November 12 2015 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [5ba982d](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/5ba982d)

`uname -a` shows omnios-8322307 (NOTE: The discrepency is because the tip of the
branch contains a single-package change, not enough to respin illumos.)

* OpenSSH updated to 7.1p1, including the [r151016](ReleaseNotes/r151016.md) method of
  switching between OpenSSH or SunSSH. PLEASE READ THE [r151016](ReleaseNotes/r151016.md)
  notes on OpenSSH & SunSSH
* Git updated to 2.6.1
* tmux updated to 2.0
* illumos 6439 (handles KVM guests better)
* KVM updates
* Hans Rosenfeld's blkdev series of fixes (illumos 6299-6305)
* LSI Fury support
* TCP timestamping behavior fix (illumos 5850)
* uuidgen(1M) now available
* HW data update to match r151016.
* Several small ZFS fixes (illumos 5219,6288,6267,6367,6319,6385,6334,6386)
* Aggregates no longer attempt to use downed links (illumos 6274)
* glob(3c) now properly deals with large-file 32-bit binaries (you may need to locally recompile your custom 32-bit apps)
* Zoneinfo update to 2015g
* ilbd memory leak plug

omnios-userland changes are more frequent, due to things like OpenSSL
updates, etc.

### September 29 2015 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [f090f73](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/f090f73)

`uname -a` shows omnios-f090f73

* NVMe 1.0 driver. Available as driver/storage/nvme from our pkg(5) repo
* Illumos bug 6266 in DTrace
* Illumos bugs 6189-6192 and 6216 for SMBIOS
* Illumos bugs 6124 and 6257 for NFS
* Small kayak changes

omnios-userland changes are more frequent, due to things like OpenSSL
updates, etc.

### September 14 2015 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [cffff65](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/cffff65)

`uname -a` shows omnios-cffff65

* Fix for [illumos 6214](https://www.illumos.org/issues/6214) which
  exposed L2ARC users to potential data corruption
* Additional ZFS fixes from Delphix
* Mozilla NSS now at 3.20

omnios-userland changes are more frequent, due to things like OpenSSL
updates, etc.

### August 18 2015 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [d08e0e5](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/d08e0e5)

`uname -a` shows omnios-d08e0e5

* Support for more HP Gen9 HBAs with cpqary3 (release media will be updated)
* Illumos bugs 6093 & 6096 (for SMB servers, fixes a free-NULL problem)
* Illumos bug 4051 - helps disk-pull reliability, upstreamed to illumos-gate from Nexenta
* Python 2.6 now has readline back in its libraries (broke in '012, now fixed)

omnios-userland changes are more frequent, due to things like OpenSSL
updates, etc.

### July 27 2015 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [7648372](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/7648372)

`uname -a` shows omnios-7648372

omnios-userland changes are more frequent, due to things like OpenSSL
updates, etc.

### April 20 2015 Update

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [170cea2](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/170cea2)

`uname -a` shows omnios-170cea2

omnios-userland changes are more frequent, due to things like OpenSSL
updates, etc.

### r151014 release

Stable AND Long-Term Support release, April 3rd, 2015

illumos-omnios branch r151014 at [45f3064](https://omnios.omniti.com/changeset.php/core/illumos-omnios/45f3064)


`uname -a` shows omnios-45f3064

Last illumos-gate merge was [4e90188](https://github.com/illumos/illumos-gate/commit/4e90188).

[r151014 release repository](http://pkg.omniti.com/omnios/r151014/)

Please read the [wiki:Upgrade_to_r151014 upgrade instructions] carefully.

#### What's new in this release?

* Major update to pkg(5) uses more modern revisions of IPS. This enables
  linked-images, and other technology
* The linked-images IPS Package brand (“lipkg”). There is a
  [whole page about linked-images](linked_images.md)
* The “omnios” publisher for r151014 (and future releases) now has its
  package signing policy set to require-signatures. See the
  [SignedPackages](SignedPackages.md) page for more information. Administrators
  who [upgrade](Upgrade_to_r151014.md) will set this policy themselves as part
  of the [documented upgrade process](Upgrade_to_r151014.md). New ISO or Kayak
  installations will have the “omnios” publisher's policy set
* Kayak servers that install 014 MUST use an 014 miniroot.gz. This is available
  where the other media is: [http://omnios.omniti.com/media/miniroot-r151014.gz](http://omnios.omniti.com/media/miniroot-r151014.gz)
* open-vm-tools
* Removal of illumos-gate FTP (which was a very old copy of wuFTPd), and Sun DHCP server
* ZFS Improvements
  * ZFS Large Block Size support (must be enabled by the administrator).
  * Write throttle fixes.
  * `zpool list -v` shows disk capacities
  * Reduction in RAM usage of ZFS cache devices.
  * New tunables:
    * zfs_free_max_blocks (can reduce for less free blocks per transaction) 
    * zvol_unmap_enabled (can set to 0 to ignore UNMAP requests which can be slow)
    * metaslabs_per_vdev (an upper limit per vdev, currently 200, now tunable)
* Various SMB/CIFS bug fixes
* Block devices (blkdev) now visible with format(1M)
* Support for the sTec S112x (e.g. S1120) PCI-E SSDs
* Replaceable sendmail package using IPS mediators
* pam_timestamp module now gives sudo-like timeouts for PAM authenticators
* Open-source version of the math library (libm). Note that the microtasking
  library (libmtsk) is still binary-only
* libproc can now understand Linux core files
* Faulty TCP maxburst logic fixed for off-link/subnet communication
  (illumos [5295](http://illumos.org/issues/5295))
* Many man page improvements
* Support for more than 16 groups with AUTH_SYS in NFS
* Global Zone administrators can directly manage non-global zones'
  IPfilter rules (to override rogue zones)
* Fast Reboot has been disabled by default in OmniOS
* New preadv() and pwritev() calls
* It is now possible to boot off of a EFI/GPT partitioned disk.
  (NOTE: Not yet available in the installers)
* Updated Emulex support for 16G Fiber Channel adapters
* Improvements to raw disk performance with (still not recommended)
  LSI MegaRAID controllers
* Updated Timezone, USB IDs, PCI IDs, and SMBIOS data
* Formerly Broadcom now QLogic 10Gig !NetXtreme II Ethernet (bnxe) driver
  is now open-source, and supports more parts
* Broadcom !NetXtreme I GigE parts update (including both full 5719 and
  5720 support, plus more)
* Additional Intel I210 (via igb) and I218 (via e1000g) GigE support
* beadm(1M) now sorts by BE creation date
* If properly configured, a zone can now run one or more [KVM instances](VirtualMachinesKVM)

#### Package changes ([+] Added, [-] Removed, [*] Changed)

 * Amazon EC2 API [*] 1.7.1.0 -> 1.7.3.0
 * Mako [*] 1.0.0 -> 1.0.1
 * NTP [*] 4.2.7p460 -> 4.2.8p1
 * OpenJDK [*] 7u21b3 -> 7u76b31
 * OpenSSH [*] 6.6p1 -> 6.7p1
 * OpenSSL [*] 1.0.1 -> 1.0.2a
 * bash [*] 4.3.25+ -> 4.3.33
 * bind [*] 9.10.0-P2 -> 9.10.2
 * bison [*] 3.0.2 -> 3.0.4
 * coverage [+] 3.7.1
 * curl [*] 7.37.1 -> 7.41.0
 * DHCP from illumos (aka Sun DHCP server) [-] (ISC DHCP is now preferred)
 * ftpd from illumos [-] (You must obtain your own FTPd now.)
 * gettext [*] 0.19.2 -> 0.19.4
 * git [*] 2.0.4 -> 2.3.0
 * gmp/gnump [*] 5.1.3 -> 6.0.0(a)
 * gnu-binutils [*] 2.24 -> 2.25
 * gnu-grep [*] 2.20 -> 2.21
 * gnu-patch [*] 2.7.1 -> 2.7.4
 * intltool [+] 0.50.2
 * ipmitool [*] 1.8.14 -> 1.8.15
 * iso-codes [*] 3.55 -> 3.57
 * jsonrpclib (for python) [+] 0.1.3
 * libffi [*] 3.1 -> 3.2.1
 * libidn [*] 1.29 -> 1.30
 * libpcap [*] 1.6.1 -> 1.6.2
 * lxml-26 [*] 3.3.5 -> 3.4.2
 * nspr [*] 4.10.6 -> 4.10.7
 * nss [*]  3.16.5 -> 3.17.4
 * numpy-26 [*] 1.8.1 -> 1.9.2
 * open-vm-tools [+] 9.4.0
 * pv (pipe-viewer) [*] 1.5.3 -> 1.5.7
 * pycurl [*] 7.19.5 -> 7.19.5.1
 * pylint [+] 1.3.1
 * sigcpp [*] 2.3.2 -> 2.4.0
 * simplejson-26 [*] 3.6.2 -> 3.6.5
 * sqlite-3 [*] 3.8.5.0 -> 3.8.8.2
 * wget [*] 1.15 -> 1.16
 * zsh [*] 5.0.5 -> 5.0.7
